---
topic: electronic
---

# Electronic materials

The ability to control the movement of electrons is at the core of many
technological breakthroughs in the last one hundred years. Computing,
energy generation and storage, and the distribution and control of
electrical power all build on discoveries of materials with the right
electronic properties.

My research interests in this area are motivated by the central role of
electronic materials in computing and adjacent areas such as RF
technologies.

## Impact of growth on the electronic properties of materials

As a natural extension of my interest in
[growth](/research/growth.html), a focus of my research
has been on the way synthesis and the resulting microstructure condition
the electronic properties of the films, particularly at low
temperatures, where interactions and kinetics are the difference between
a really good material, and a piece of junk.

One of the examples is the growth of ZnO by atomic layer deposition: it
can be grown epitaxially at temperatures as low as 100 degrees C, yet
the temperature is so low that [we can control the distribution of
dopants](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/cm2014576).

I am also interested on the electronic properties of hybrid
organic-inorganic materials fabricated via techniques such as sequential
infiltration synthesis. This technique allows us to take polymers,
including 3D printed materials, and infiltrate them with inorganic
materials, resulting on composites with novel optical and mechanical
properties.

Similarly, I have explored other systems such as wide bandgap
semiconductors. Silicon carbide is a very interesting example, since it
can grow on more than one hundred different polytypes, all based on
different ways of stacking its atoms. Silicon carbide may not be the
hottest material out there, but it is key for advanced power electronics
and also provides a pathway to enable computing under extreme
environments, such as high temperature and high radiation. It is also a
promising subtrate for quantum computing. Finally, SiC is an important
constituent of presolar grains, primordial material that predates the
formation of the solar system.

Growing high quality SiC is extremely challenging, requiring
temperatures exceeding 1500 degrees C. This makes it extremely hard to
probe growth using in-situ techniques to understand the mechanistic
aspects involved in the formation of these materials. Over the past
years, I have been involved in a number of projects involving the
development of models to try to capture the evolution of microstructure
during SiC growth and, from an experimental point of view, develop
developing new ways of accessing these growth conditions using
synchrotron radiation. I am also part of a project looking into the
device degradation under neutron bombardment.

Recently I have also explored the microstructure and electronic
properties of gallium oxide: gallium oxide is a novel wide bandgap
semiconductor with a monoclinic crystalline structure and the potential
to yield large single crystal substrates, something that it is much
harder to achieve in other comparable materials such as silicon carbide
or gallium nitride. Therefore, it is an interesting material to keep an
eye on, and it is the focus of one of my current research projects.

## Design principles for electronic materiasl for brain-inspired computing

Another area or current interest is on beyond CMOS approaches and in
particular on [neuromorphic computing](/research/neuro.html).
One of the fascinating aspects for me on this area is the
strong coupling between materials, architectures, and computing, and the
need of developing new materials with new functionalities.
