---
topic: growth
layout: default

---

# The physics of growth 

Growth is onw of my key areas of interest. The physics of growth
comprises the mechanisms by which building blocks come together to form
large scale structures in a way that is mainly dominated by local
interactions and external fields. The role that these interactions have
on determining the resulting structure is something that I have always
found fascinating.

Growth is so ubiquitous that it can become almost invisible. Everything
around us has been created at some point in time, and many technological
advances have been enabled by our ability to control the way atoms are
arranged to form materials with unique properties.

## Growth under the influence of chemistry

One of the fundamental questions is to understand how growth conditions
affect the microstructure of the materials that it is being formed. This
is particularly interesting at low temperatures, where the mobility of
atoms is hindered, potentially preventing them to relax and form highly
crystalline materials. Under these conditions, the details of the
processes taking place at the surface can strongly impact the resulting
microstructure, in some cases leading to highly ordered structures and
crystalline materials.

Developing the ability to predict how growth conditions lead to a
certain microstructure can have a tremendous impact in our ability to
grow new materials or for the scale up of lab scale processes.
Therefore, it has a strong connection with
[advanced manufacturing](/research/advancedmanu.html).
The control of surface reactivity can also impact the ability to achieve
homogeneous materials or coat evenly high aspect ratio and
nanostructured substrates, something that has fueled the development of
3D architectures in computer chips. It can also be used to develop new
patterning strategies exploiting variations in reactivity between
different materials to selectively grow in specific regions of the
surface.

## Combining models and experiments

My approach to these questions is to combine experiments and simulations
to deepen our understanding of the fundamental aspects of thin film
growth and develop new applications. From a experimental point of view,
we focus primarily on a technique called
[atomic layer deposition](/research/ald.html),
which has the advantage of being extremely reproducible -when done
right. We also leverage synchrotron radiation and other in-situ
techniques to probe in detail the structure of the material as they
evolve from its individual atoms.

From a simulation perspective, our focus in mainly on kinetic Monte
Carlo simulations to model growth on arbitrary graphs, as well as the
development of novel simulation tools to model reactive transport and
predict growth within high surface area materials. These allow us to
translate our fundamental understanding to wafer and feature length
scales that are relevant for advanced manufacturing applications.

## And beyond

In addition to these areas, the physics of self-assembly, the early
stages of the solar system, or the process of morphogenesis in
biological systems are areas that I find fascinating. There is also
beauty in growth, from the shapes of crystals and the landscapes
sculpted by erosion, to the underlying models that help us connect the
morphologies observed in vastly different systems.

![The structure of silica aerogels as seen through an scanning electron
microscope.](/assets/images/aerogels.png){: width="250" .center-image}
